In this video, you'll
examine some of
the methods and
associated configuration
parameters that you
can use to influence the
way that the model makes
the final decision about
next-word generation.
If you've used LLMs in
playgrounds such as
on the Hugging Face
website or an AWS,
you might have been
presented with controls like
these to adjust how
the LLM behaves.
Each model exposes a set of
configuration
parameters that can
influence the model's
output during inference.
Note that these
are different than
the training
parameters which are
learned during training time.
Instead, these
configuration parameters
are invoked at inference time
and give you control
over things like
the maximum number of
tokens in the completion,
and how creative the output is.
Max new tokens is
probably the simplest
of these parameters,
and you can use it to limit
the number of tokens that
the model will generate.
You can think of this as
putting a cap on the number of
times the model will go
through the selection process.
Here you can see examples
of max new tokens being set
to 100, 150, or 200.
But note how the length
of the completion
in the example for
200 is shorter.
This is because another
stop condition was reached,
such as the model predicting
and end of sequence token.
Remember it's max new tokens,
not a hard number of
new tokens generated.
The output from the
transformer's softmax layer is
a probability
distribution across
the entire dictionary of
words that the model uses.
Here you can see a selection of
words and their probability
score next to them.
Although we are only
showing four words here,
imagine that this is a list that
carries on to the
complete dictionary.
Most large language
models by default
will operate with
so-called greedy decoding.
This is the simplest form
of next-word prediction,
where the model
will always choose
the word with the
highest probability.
This method can work very well
for short generation but is
susceptible to repeated words
or repeated sequences of words.
If you want to generate
text that's more natural,
more creative and
avoids repeating words,
you need to use some
other controls.
Random sampling is
the easiest way
to introduce some variability.
Instead of selecting
the most probable word
every time with random sampling,
the model chooses an output
word at random using
the probability distribution
to weight the selection.
For example, in
the illustration,
the word banana has a
probability score of 0.02.
With random sampling,
this equates to
a 2% chance that this
word will be selected.
By using this
sampling technique,
we reduce the likelihood
that words will be repeated.
However, depending
on the setting,
there is a possibility that
the output may be too creative,
producing words that cause
the generation to wander
off into topics or words
that just don't make sense.
Note that in some
implementations,
you may need to disable
greedy and enable random
sampling explicitly.
For example, the Hugging Face
transformers implementation
that we use in
the lab requires that we set
do sample to equal true.
Let's explore top k and top p
sampling techniques to help
limit the random sampling and
increase the chance that the
output will be sensible.
Two Settings, top p and
top k are sampling techniques
that we can use to
help limit the
random sampling and
increase the chance that the
output will be sensible.
To limit the options while still
allowing some variability,
you can specify a top k value
which instructs the model to
choose from only the k tokens
with the highest probability.
In this example here,
k is set to three,
so you're restricting
the model to choose
from these three options.
The model then selects
from these options using
the probability weighting
and in this case,
it chooses donut
as the next word.
This method can help the model
have some randomness while
preventing the selection of
highly improbable
completion words.
This in turn makes
your text generation
more likely to sound
reasonable and to make sense.
Alternatively, you
can use the top p
setting to limit the
random sampling to
the predictions whose
combined probabilities
do not exceed p. For example,
if you set p to equal 0.3,
the options are cake and donut
since their probabilities
of 0.2 and 0.1 add up to 0.3.
The model then uses the
random probability
weighting method
to choose from these tokens.
With top k, you specify
the number of tokens to
randomly choose from,
and with top p,
you specify the
total probability
that you want the
model to choose from.
One more parameter that
you can use to control
the randomness of
the model output
is known as temperature.
This parameter
influences the shape of
the probability
distribution that
the model calculates
for the next token.
Broadly speaking, the
higher the temperature,
the higher the randomness,
and the lower the temperature,
the lower the randomness.
The temperature value is
a scaling factor
that's applied within
the final softmax layer
of the model that
impacts the shape of
the probability distribution
of the next token.
In contrast to the top
k and top p parameters,
changing the
temperature actually
alters the predictions
that the model will make.
If you choose a low
value of temperature,
say less than one,
the resulting probability
distribution from
the softmax layer
is more strongly
peaked with the
probability being
concentrated in a
smaller number of words.
You can see this here in the
blue bars beside the table,
which show a probability bar
chart turned on its side.
Most of the probability here is
concentrated on the word cake.
The model will select
from this distribution
using random sampling and
the resulting text will be
less random and will
more closely follow
the most likely word sequences
that the model learned
during training.
If instead you set the
temperature to a higher value,
say, greater than one,
then the model will calculate
a broader flatter
probability distribution
for the next token.
Notice that in contrast
to the blue bars,
the probability is more evenly
spread across the tokens.
This leads the model
to generate text
with a higher degree
of randomness
and more variability in
the output compared to a
cool temperature setting.
This can help you generate
text that sounds more creative.
If you leave the temperature
value equal to one,
this will leave the
softmax function as
default and the unaltered
probability distribution
will be used.
You've covered a lot
of ground so far.
You've examined the types
of tasks that LLMs are
capable of performing and
learned about transformers,
the model architecture that
powers these amazing tools.
You've also explored how to get
the best possible performance
out of these models using
prompt engineering and
by experimenting with
different inference
configuration parameters.
In the next video,
you'll start building on
this foundational knowledge
by thinking through
the steps required
to develop and
launch an LLM
-powered application.